
Update instructions for v4.x
============================

General instructions
********************

* RUNALYZE follows `semantic versioning <http://semver.org/>`_.
* If not stated otherwise, patch updates do not require any further adjustments.
  Just copy the files into your working directory.
* You should be able to update from version 4.0 to the latest 4.x version.
  Nevertheless, we unfortunately cannot guarantee that skipping a minor version
  will always work. Therefore you should follow the update process for each
  minor version.
* Execute the update via cli if you have big installations or a slow server.
* Clear the cache by deleting the content of the directories ``var/cache/prod``
  and ``var/cache/doctrine`` or by executing the command ``cache:clean`` and
  ``doctrine:cache:clear-metadata``.

.. warning:: Never forget to make a backup before updating or changing your
    RUNALYZE installation. (You break it - you fix it)

Upgrade from 3.2 to 4.0
***********************
Just follow the standard instructions:

1. Purge your runalyze/ directory except for the ``data/`` directory and extract
   the downloaded archive of v4.0.

2. Run the update via cli (``php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate``) or
   accessing ``/update`` (``update_disabled: no`` is required in your
   ``data/config.yml``). We recommend to run the update via cli due some long
   running database updates.

3. Adjust the new :doc:`configuration </configuration>`. parameters. ``backup_storage_period``, ``poster_storage_period``, ``router.request_context.host``, ``router.request_context.scheme``, ``router.request_context.base_url``

From v4.0 on, RUNALYZE uses a queueing system for processing long lasting tasks
in background. See :ref:`additional requirements <queueing-system>`
for more information about the queueing system and the following requirements
for the new poster tool:

* python, see :ref:`non-php-languages`
* rsvg-convert, see :ref:`non-php-tools`
* inkscape, see :ref:`non-php-tools`
