
Installation instructions for v4.x
==================================

.. note::
   RUNALYZE started as one-man-project with only one user and has grown to an
   app with around 13.000 users of our `official online version <https://runalyze.com/>`_.
   Server requirements and complexity of the app and its configuration grow with
   the feature list. Please understand that our main focus is on implementing
   new features and serving a performant online version. Therefore, support for
   local installations is limited.

You can simply follow the :doc:`installation instructions for 3.x </installation/3.x>`.

For differences to v3.x, see :doc:`update instructions for 4.0 </upgrade/4.x>`
and the new :ref:`queueing system <queueing-system>`.

Ubuntu/Debian distributions
---------------------------

All required php packages (Use the corresponding version php packages names):

``php7.0-intl php7.0-mysql php7.0-sqlite3 php7.0-mbstring php7.0-xml php7.0-curl php7.0-zip php7.0-gettext php7.0-intl``

Further packages:

``perl sqlite3 libsqlite3-mod-spatialite gettext libxml2 python3 python3-pip inkscape``

Optional:
 * Install/Compile rsvg(-convert) at least in version 2.41.0 (Default packages ``librsvg2-bin`` & ``librsvg2-common`` in Ubuntu are too old)
 * :ref:`Install and configure <time-zone-detection>` the timezone recognization database
 * :ref:`Download the elevation correction srtm data <elevation-srtm-files>`

You may need to install the corresponding locales to get the translations running:
Have a look in ``less /usr/share/i18n/SUPPORTED`` whether the locale is already installed.
If not you have to install the locales on the system(the following example is for the german language)::

    sudo locale-gen de_DE.UTF-8

Follow the :doc:`installation instructions for 3.x </installation/3.x>`.

Install the python dependencies for the poster tool: ``pip3 install -r vendor/runalyze/GpxTrackPoster/requirements.txt``

Windows
-------

.. warning:: We encourage you to use a unix system. RUNALYZE is not fully compatible with a Windows system. You will get the best experience with a unix system.

.. warning:: The dependencies needed for the `ttbin`-Importer and poster tool are only available for unix based systems.

Therefore we will not give any further instructions. You can still use the apache or nginx server configuration mentioned in :doc:`installation instructions for 3.x </installation/3.x>`.

Installation on a webspace
---------------------------
If you are using a webhosting space (like e.g. `Netcup* <https://www.netcup.eu/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=1213>`_) it should be really easy to install RUNALYZE.

.. note:: We recommend a webspace with ssh access (for longer lasting tasks), perl (for fit file import) and cronjobs . Do not forget that you need at least PHP 5.5.9+

.. warning:: Webspace do not fulfil all the requirements. Some features will not be available.

1. Download the latest version (not the source code) from `Github <https://github.com/Runalyze/Runalyze/releases>`_ and extract it to a folder of your choice.
2. Pay attention to the directories. the ``web`` directory is the public web directory. Everything above should be better not visible to the public. Best practice is to setup a subdomain and point it to the ``web`` directory
3. Follow the :doc:`installation instructions for 3.x </installation/3.x>`.
